---
description: Training on how properly operate dangerous equipment/ share space together.
---

# 0.9 Safe Work Practives

#### Overview

Particularly important in makerspace, co-working space applications. Where many independent projects are going on at o

Sharing space, but not mission, purpose.

SWP → FDC → SOP → CGS

#### Where it occurs/ how we initiate it

Any undertaking involves inherent risks.

Accidents can only be avoided when hazards are properly identified in advance. Familiarity with commonplace dangers can help to mitigate instances of harm to operators, equipment, and bystanders.

Having explicit SWP prevents confusion, and empowers people to take corrective action when they identify a problem.

For people who may not be familiar with the operation or function of a piece of equipment, or of particular hazards in the area.

Eg Drink water with electrolytes before going on a long run

Learn to use the table saw properly

Red lines on the factory floor indicate path of travel for forklifts.

Work method statement (safe work procedure) describe a document that gives specific instructions on how to safely perform a work related task, or operate a piece of plant or equipment.

The term safe work procedure (SWP) originated in Victoria, Australia, and is predominantly used as a risk management tool by industries throughout Australia, particularly in the mining sector. SWPs are also referred to using other terms, such as standard operating procedure (SOP). A safe work procedure is a step by step description of a process when deviation may cause a loss. This risk control document created by teams within the company describes the safest and most efficient way to perform a task. This document stays in the health & safety system for regular use as a template or guide when completing that particular task on site.

[Philosophy](../../white-paper/1.9-guild/0.9-ordinal-guild/0.9-sourcing-and-revising-standards/0.9-safe-work-practices.md)
