---
description: >-
  Opportunity specifically designed to demonstrate a discrete skill related to a
  trade
---

# 0.9 Practical Factors (rename)

#### Overview

Foundational task

They are indicative of the competencies relevant to that trade or profession. Tasks relevant to a trade or profession

Practical factors outline specific tasks with clear outcomes for people wishing to advance in guild with ranks \[performance factors?]

Opportunities formatted to demonstrate discrete skills

Outline a specific task with clear objectives and measurable outcomes.

They’re a way for people to show/prove that they understand a piece of the thing they want to do.

Component skills of an overall skillset.

Make assessment easier, What is it that proves a person understands how to do this? Is this task indicative of a performance or learning objective that we want a person to understand

Much like tests in academia, Assess knowledge acquisition based on performance on a test indicative of that knowledge base.

Representative of the core fundamental

underlying principle meant to understand.

Assess skill acquisition based on performance of a task indicative of that skillset

Complete a certain number of practical factors to demonstrate FDC,

Calculate how much flour to make 15 dozen muffins

#### Where it occurs/ how we initiate it

They’re pre written opportunity posts, templated out, if you want to advance, you post one. Let's go factors give people the chance to Exhibit what they now, they remove doubt, they remove questioning, and they make the process easier last murky. Rather than having to individually assess what thing is significant and what thing is Not, Practical factors are the things that themselves are indicative. They are templates that people can use to Showcase what they know what they have learned, they are things to Aspire to. They are distinct things to Aspire to they are things to achieve, Milestones, they are the way that you know that you've made it and that you understand it. And they're signed off by multiple people, because it's not just convincing 1 person that you know of the things, it's not just learning the way that one person doesn't thing, it's multiple feedback a wide selection of people who may be more or less position than one thing than the other May understand things a different way may be able to offer advice important difference between see what another person. Critiques. Practical factors signing off of practical factors don't just rely on the conceit or the disposition or the authority of one person, they take into account multiple different people and multiple different appraisals to build certain teeth. It's not like you're going to just pull one person end of thinking that you know how to do a thing, and you don't have to question whether or not you actually know things. What you have to do you have the validation of a community of peers and superiors and people who have down the f\*\*\*\*\*\* thing that can tell you with confidence that you know how to do it. It's a way of building confidence, and assuring accountability and thoroughness. Rather than just one past or 1 academic sort of assessment, it's an assessment of relevant skill, it's administered by multiple different people in multiple different levels and multiple different times. It's a short that you can't get rid of basic testing 123 Sesame speak, it's not an in of 1 it's an end of mini. Additionally for the signing off a practical factors if it turns out that somebody doesn't get something you can trace back easily to go was signed off on that thing and assess their know, if your biggest thing is looking forward to delete areas means come from. It's a way of accountability not only for the people who are professing to have learned a skill but the people who are professing to know us go well enough to teach it. Backspace factors the signing off of practical factors be endorsing a practical factors also plays a crucial role and the advancement of the person teaching, because if you don't know well something well enough to teaches you don't really have something.. Practical factors are always up for debate, are always up for refinement, and come in on series and burdens so that the latest greatest version can be given to whoever needs to get it, they are living a stagnant.

[Philosophy](../../white-paper/1.9-guild/0.9-ordinal-guild/0.9-sourcing-and-revising-standards/0.0-practical-factors-rename.md)
