---
description: Natural process of loosing a skill due to disuse
---

# 0.9 Skillset Decay

#### Overview

This happens regardless, we track it, sigmoid curve, depreciation, counter by teaching/practicing Can be modified by certifying authority in a certified guild,

For each level, a depreciation function for each Prac Factors

Meant to reflect the natural decay that people experience following prolonged disuse of a particular skillset.

Occurs shortly after a skillset is acquired, id remediates quickly as a person interacts with that particular skill.

Eg, so long as you’re teaching someone else, it doesn’t matter,

Something like how continuing education credits are meant to keep a person up to date on a particular subject area, keep the material fresh in their minds. This does the same thing

Ranks/level are not lost, simply remain stagnant and the freshness is reflected in the shininess of their insignia.

Can be looked at if a person is in need of a refresher. A way to review the operational readiness after a given amount of time.

Hasn’t poured concrete in a while, may not remember exactly how to do the thing,

Necessary for advancement to the next level in the guild, Ensures upward mobility for all those people at a lower level.

Havent done something in a while, you loose practice,

#### Where it occurs/ how we initiate it

After acquiring a skill, it must be put to use, use it or loose it.

[Philosophy](../../white-paper/1.9-guild/0.9-ordinal-guild/0.9-acquisition-integration-\_-proliferation/0.9-skillset-decay.md)
