---
description: Means of determining and updating SOPs, SWP, FDC
---

# 0.9 Sourcing and Revising Standards

#### Overview

For all templated opportunities, changes will need to be made.

Original templates determined by founding guild folks, or existing guidelines.

Revision involves gathering the required number of members. Those who've the highest scores in ability & communication Also potentially determined by CGS.

SOP, SWP, FDC are updated. Decision made whether or not its a significant replacement which is a Fundamentally NEW skillset, procedure, competency, or it its simply Revised. If Fundamentally NEW, If fundamentally New SOP or SWP -then ASAP implementation as a requirement, if not then just a change at next training \[wrong fucking word, needs to feel more positive and active] cycle. If revised or new, for FDC, then just an update to the next cycle.

Continually updating, improving, optimizing Consolidating

Quantitative measures of whats good/bad within the constraints of the app SOP S training P Standing not standard BC are unique to guild Or as dictated by the certifying body in accordance with their requirements.

Can be accomplished organically by passing a change through the Arbitration process.

Dictates FDC’s for a Level, and Practical Factors in for the FDC’s, and whom is able to sign off of which, and how many signatures are required, at what space apart.

#### Where it occurs/ how we initiate it

<mark style="color:red;">lorem</mark>

[Philosophy](../../white-paper/1.9-guild/0.9-ordinal-guild/0.9-sourcing-and-revising-standards/)
