---
description: The way you do things withing a Business oriented Guild
---

# 0.9 Standard Operating Procedures

#### Overview

Established means of accomplishing tasks, particularly when the completion of one task is dependent on another. Dependencies are at hand

Level of instruction/ competency. Institutional collaboration level rather than FDC’s which are individual performance.

Necessary to establish a business or cooperative. Collaboration oriented, means to create a super organism. Are things that vary from business to business, and from location to location.

A franchise may have identical tools and equipment, but may differ in the amount of stock they keep on hand, their hours of operation, or any number of other factors that are unique to that specific location, and its operations

SOP’s differ from FDC’s and SWP’s in that they are hyper specific to the operations of that guild in particular.

SWP: Fryer oil is hot, this is how you treat a burn FDC: This is how you use a fryer SOP: this is how many fries to have on hand at any given time.

SOP’s get everyone on the same page with how business is conducted at that specific location. By being explicit, they can eliminate a great many misunderstandings. Their added benefit is that their visibility allows members within the guild to see how their decisions/outputs may effect other processes down the line.

#### Where it occurs/ how we initiate it

<mark style="color:red;">lorem</mark>

[Philosophy](../../white-paper/1.9-guild/0.9-ordinal-guild/0.9-sourcing-and-revising-standards/0.9-standard-operating-procedures.md)
