---
description: >-
  distributed Technical and Vocational Education and Training, A-I-P, Skillset
  depreciation
coverY: 0
---

# 1.9 dTVET

**include CDMX 2020 write-up & rant here**

**What is it?**&#x20;

A framework to meet the Capacity building and readiness goals set by communities of practice. It outlines the Fundamental Domain Competencies needed for a given scope of work, the method and means to build & demonstrate them, and whose authority is needed to verify each. This process can be adapted to meet the credentialing schema of more mature organizations with existing performance standards & rubrics; but was conceived of as a way for less-established organizations to develop & implement their own Standard-Operating-Procedures and Safe-Work-Practices from the ground up.

**How does it happen?**&#x20;

Formalization begins with the clear intention to do so by a Community of Practice (mediated via our Community Governance Process). What follows is the solicitation of Procedural-knowledge from those most experienced/proficient in their field (as measured by aptitude amongst their peers via our Social Recognition Software).  Then a consolidating of this collective know-how into a formal Knowledge-model and credentialing schema (another Community Governance Process), which can be disseminated to those in the field at large. (A process that can be repeated at varying intervals)

**Why distributed?**

Given that skill sets, know-how, and productive capacities are not diminished over time but improved by iteration; our approach to TVET is informed more by Biology than Epistemology.  We assume a non-zero-sum, living model of Knowledge that benefits from cross-pollination between variations in problem solving tactics & heuristics. And that this essential diversity is better preserved through a distributed-heterarchy than a that monolithic-hierarchy.

\
