---
cover: ../../../.gitbook/assets/1599px-Raphael_School_of_Athens.jpeg
coverY: -71.14571746384871
---

# 0.9 demurrage

#### Philosophy

Nothing is permanent, who you are today wont be who you are tomorrow. If you don't look back on the person you were 5 years ago and cringe... you're doing something wrong.&#x20;

We develop skills along the way,&#x20;

Just as tangible skillsets develop of diminish over time, so too our preferences, our opinions,&#x20;

We all need the space to grow, and time provides that,&#x20;

Held accountable without being held back.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_State of the art:

Simplistic reviews are incorporated in a binary fashion: either they are counted before a certain date, or they are not expired after a certain time. They make no distinction between historical and contemporary experiences.&#x20;

Our solution:

We apply a sigmoid function to our reviews. Contemporary reviews are considered the most relevant, historical reviews less so. As time passes the weight of prior reviews approaches Zero. this is our way of keeping up to date on the latest changes in product/person experiences.

Justification:

People/products/companies change, its important to reflect that. The sum of a person is more than their best or worst moment. People change over time, fucking let them! Let it be oay that we’re better than we were before. Don’t hold us to a standard of expectation that wever surpassed a long time past. Don’t pigeon hole us into the same box we came from. Let us evolve, let us become more than we once were. Thats the naturall progression of the human, from “cringe” to “woke”, its a fucking process. We can do better if only we’re allowed to. With all gratitude to the flks whove come before us, whole taught us, whove changed our minds. Let us become more than we are now. Let us grow, let us refine, let us Become.

\




#### Examples

lorem

[Form and Function](../../../blue-paper/1.0-reputations-public-and-administrative/0.0-demurrage.md)
