---
description: Something slightly more than the total sum of all persons with an Evr account
---

# 0.8 EVR Community

#### Philosophy

As a begrudging necessity, we will at some point extole the virtues of community, and "explore" its well-documented benefits. -Thankfully now is not the time to belabor those points! Because despite being very much envogue as a buzz-word & ill-defined aspiration, precious few pragmatic questions ever seem addressed. This take is meant to be sincere and poignant, not comprehensive: For all their nuance and diversity, Communities seem to have only one necessary feature: Mutualism.&#x20;

Is this a belligerent oversimplification -absolutely yes, and intentionally so. Because with it we can remain naively ambivalent about the "right" way to go about creating, maintaining, & developing community.  It forces us to place emphasis on plurality rather than prescriptions, which ultimately helps to increase the adaptability & scalability of the EVR community overall. So with mutualism established as our Keystone characteristic, what must this ecosystem provide, and what must it avoid to help it thrive?&#x20;

Healthy boundaries are good thing, as are informed constraints. These limitations & expectations establish the grounds for interaction, providing a precursor to sustained mutualism and literal definition for a community. For the EVR Community, this includes all the protocols & metrics the Platform provides. \***To be very clear -these two entities are not synonymous: the Community is meant to extend beyond the Platform; -to be variable & exciting, vibrant, dynamic & vivacious; -to excite & entice people to create beauty in the world. The Platform itself is meant only to be convenient & practical, unobtrusive & reliable, to disappear graciously into the background and be taken for granted.** \* So as unavoidable necessity it is, we've crafted our underlying architecture to be as generic & minimal as practical. Sacrificing customization of the Platform to remain un-obstructive and interoperable for the Community at scale. &#x20;

The failure to form &/or maintain mutualistic bonds can happen any number of ways. All of which result from a change to some combination of material, psychological, or structural conditions, that culminates in needs not being met.

Sometimes those conditions are incidental: they can ebb & flow with some predictability, or be abrupt & unanticipated (like BlackSwan events). Sometimes our bonds are able to adapt with these new conditions, sometimes not, but we generally recover from them as naturally as they occur.&#x20;

Other times those conditions are intentional: contrived by some agent with the intent of causing irrecoverable loss for their own gain. &#x20;





Material, psychological, or structural deficits: Where the needs of those involved aren't being sufficiently met.&#x20;

Emotional&#x20;



Needs aren't being met, When their definition isn't explicit enough, &#x20;

&#x20;but where the limitations of pre- (and pro-) scriptions go awry is&#x20;

#### Examples

Jimbo baked a cake with suzan.

Suzan helped replaced an alternator with Kendra

Kendra and Hilda played chess in the park

[Form and Function](../../blue-paper/1.0-guild/1.0-evr-community.md)
