---
description: The memetic lifecycle
---

# 0.9 Acquisition - Integration \_ Proliferation

#### Philosophy

Learning isn't simply a matter of skill acquisition or transfer of a body of knowledge from one individual to another. That's a very basic way of looking at it, no way that is so basic that is undermines its values the entire process of knowledge body acquisition and accumulation. It's not a simple transaction are a sort of process where one person pays money or attention and the other person imparts knowledge. the process is a cumulative one, with each successive iteration of interpretation and you'll ization building on that total knowledge base stat total skill set. It's not as if we're playing a game of telephone where the first iteration of knowledge or know-how is the perfect one and everyone after a subsequent derivation. t after a subsequent derivation. What we're told is that we're all standing on the shoulders of giants, but this is actually a lie there are no great manifest the great history are highly overrated they are of Mythos that we prepare to 8 because it's easier to see things that way. But the truth is is that everyone who picks up a concept and plays with it and refines it in their mind is adding something to that process adding their own experiences their own intuitions oh, they're adding the benefit of their experience and their insights to that Pursuit. Without that continual process of Rejuvenation of iteration knowledge becomes stagnant it becomes archaic it becomes irrelevant oh, and if left unattended or not in trying to get some to replace a mass or archive it dies. There is no perfect body of knowledge, dues should be paid to get this to Balaji of different thoughts and different ways of thinking about things, what remains to be on acknowledged is that the body of knowledge is truly a living body. It must be prepared she waited it must undergo changes in less than apt in order to live. it is a process of have a great shift. A multitude of different derivation different mutations slightly different means of understanding and of expressing that refines down a concept that promotes competition amongst different ways of understanding the world and of understanding content and of expressing content. With the system we offer an environment where difference competing conceptions and articulations of Concepts can flourish, or they can intermingle and breed and mutate until they reach the next Generation where only the best teaching methods and most useful Frameworks survive. The process of improvement Continual Improvement and refinement interpretation and expression because ultimately these practical factors are not simply things to be and stored in your back pocket. The things to be there existing in their own right. you pay homage to them and do honor to them by taking them in and digesting them metabolizing them through action and then expressing them back out into the world. Without feedback mechanism without a way to see their efficacy to gauge the judge to quantify their efficacy, we can easily last teaching methods and Concepts go down blind alley ways from which they never can recover, we let them get incestuous and Noble. When knowledge and concepts are prevented from intermingling, when their and try and and some sort of holier-than-thou Beyond The Pale Ivory Tower, they end up becoming incestuous, and efficient, and ineffective, at what their true purpose was to begin with. It's important to understand that the teaching that we do and the training that we give is not actually the thing itself that we are trying to teach the thing that we are trying to teach exist separately the things that we're trying to understand exists a priori our understanding or conceptions of it. We do our best to Edge ever closer to the truth, to Edge ever closer to Effectiveness to actual causation,. But that process is a never-ending one we will never know Perfection we will never attain Perfection and to assume that something written thousands of years ago was expressed and the best way possible, is absolute insanity. there will always be a better way to understand things to express things to know things to conceive of things because the reality of something lives independently of our Are concessions are but attempts to understand the reality of us and they will forever be in perfect and they can never be improved on. The point having a delay between the acquisition and the proliferation of knowledge and skill sets the point of having that cause for integration for application for experience is to make sure that these concepts are not just ingested and originated but digested and internalized and only if you that process can real significant improvements occur to a training program to a knowledge base to our conception of what happens. We are factors for information but not just vectors fundamentally change that knowledge with each iteration we add to it. The contributions we need to start sourcing we need to start acknowledging we need to start appreciating the contributions that all of us make 2 hour early by adopting and modifying it.

#### Examples

<mark style="color:red;">lorem</mark>

[Form and Function](../../../../blue-paper/1.0-guild/0.9-acquisition-integration-\_-proliferation.md)
