---
description: Adjustments made to the weight of review criterion
---

# 0.9 Relational Dynamic Adjustment

#### Philosophy

Power asymmetry isn't inherently a bad thing so long as its taken into proper account and utilized in a positive way. Teaching is a sacred undertaking, as is learning positive attitude is the best thing for a learner -aptitude isnt nearly as important.

Evaluators need to be free from repercussions to make their decisions. Its not a reciprocal relationship. It is a one way exchange of one person Giving another person their certification/blessing. It is strictly a gift.

Senior persons have the expertise which is super important in making assessments, bt they also have an obligation as the person in power, as the senior person to be a decent human being. The outcome of newbees largely depends on the reception, the welcome, the feeling they get form those senior to them.

While most skilled than ever and most opportunities in ever are between peers, there are certain times when there is a power dynamic or a power asymmetry in place, this is not a bad thing. This is actually helpful if it is acknowledged and monitored in the right sort of way. 4 instances where there are power line and balances but asymmetries, these are not imbalances. They are a symmetries, and they're natural and good and beneficial and necessary if we are to help one another advance. To pretend that they don't exist is foolishness. 2 acknowledge that they do, and build on that fact and take that fact into account and honor that back is an important sort of thing to do. It's also important to free people were in the position of assessing from any sort of retaliation, or any sort of negative feedback. Relational Dynamics are important to pay attention to, they're how you find out who the best teachers are, who the most apt and willing pupils are, it's a way of showing honor and giving credit to those who are particularly good at teaching at transmitting their knowledge who have really provided a valuable contribution to their Guild to their chosen profession to their chosen endeavor. And it's also a way to show appreciation for, the people who are teaching people for learning, it's a way to acknowledge the different roles that people have in that exchange of information of ideas.

#### Examples

<mark style="color:red;">lorem</mark>

[Form and Function](../../../../blue-paper/1.0-guild/0.9-relational-dynamic-adjustment.md)
