---
description: Formal Declaration of proficiency and seniority at a given level of
---

# 0.9 Level

#### Philosophy

Responsibility, accountability, know who to turn to in times of crisis, in times of need, for instruction, etc Level, rank in importance to have visible. To be able to reflect the contributions and the ftc's that a person has. It's more than just signority, more than just time in grade, and more than just acquisition. Our level structure is indicative of actual performance of actual collaboration, of opportunities taken and given and capitalize on,. in some ways it can be a thing that can be deferred to but more important than deference is reliance, people of a higher level can be relied on to provide good information to provide a sage wisdom and hard-earned wisdom and happy experience. That's reflection of experience of Competency and of action within a community of practice within a guild, it's a reflection of the values of that Guild and up a person and of their contribution. People of a higher rank by the higher levels look to in times of need. They have earned their rank not through boastfulness not through self-aggrandizement for self-promotion, but through actual real tangible measurable actions that have significance to that gill to that community and to the ever Community as a whole. Level is a way of reflecting that contribution of reflecting that commitment to a craft to profession to an endevor. It's also a nice way to see the progress, not simply for the people who would look on them oh, but also for people who are practitioners who are engaged in the process. To be able to point to this and I achieve this I did this this is mean it's a point of Pride as well as People like waffles their progress they're doing something that they're progressing towards something but they aren't in the same place that they were a year 5 years 10 years ago. Levels give people a sense of accomplishment I sense of motion of forward momentum towards their goal. And yes I want to go to rely on an emergency, no one came to rely on for advice, knowing who to go to if you're wanting to progressed if you're wanting to know what that next stage of life is like, is an amazing sort of blessing to have. To know the Landscapes and deal with the people in it and to know what they've done what they're capable of, there's a credibility that you can get there that you can't get anywhere else in the situation of milk. If nothing else you can know that this person is deserving of respect, of reference, of your time. That way you don't just have the most boisterous the most vocal people that end up getting the most followers or the most credibility. You can let your rank speak for you, you can not have to be the most extroverted, or the most opinionated, or the most out there. You can simply let your past accomplishments and contributions speak for you.

#### Examples

Cotton, linnen, wool, chifon, & knits.

Level 1 would have a basic knowledge

Level 5 would have greater knowledge, all of level ones competency and then some.

Level could also be an off/on sort of thing. Either you’re qualified or you aren’t. Thespian society. .

[Form and Function](../../../../blue-paper/1.0-guild/0.9-level.md)
