---
description: Total of all competencies needed to perform a function individual
---

# 0.9 Fundamental Domain Competencies

#### Philosophy

How TF are you supposed to get ahead in an organization, or to improve yourself if you don’t know the steps involved.

Imagine if you were trying to figure out how to get from point A to point B without any sort of roadmap, without any sort of goalpost or guy post or Direction along the way. That's it for the world that we're living in right now, where you have no f\*\*\*\*\*\* clue how to get where you want to be. While Fdc's may feel like an imposition, they are much more like a structural framework that people can climb the ladder to provide runs to provide those benchmarks and those things that people need to achieve you in order to achieve their goal. Rather than being left out in the wilderness in the Paradox of choice without knowing which way to go, at least provide waypost all posts benchmarks Shipped to speculation align they provide certainty oh, they provide a way to show case your skills, and definitive steps that you can take. It's a gateway to success and say setting up someone for success in their endeavors. Without knowing that you can end up a place where you're not prepared, things help you be prepared for the things that you're going to experience based on the experience and the past mistakes of others. Ftc's are not required by all guilds, not everything needs an FDC not everything needs practical factors, but those that do those things that matter that they are done right that are tried-and-true crafts and professions there are reasons for doing things a certain way before having a certain body of knowledge to prepare you for the road ahead. With this you can get a bird's-eye view of a God's eye view of the steps involved to get where you want to be, and you'll be able to tell Beyond any doubt what a person is capable of, or at least what they proven that they're capable of. It's a way to give credibility to ensure the giving us credibility to a person who shows up and says that they know how to do a thing. Rather than relying on self-aggrandizement, the ftc's show case what a person is capable of what they have proven that they can do, and their chow chow for their endorsed by other people who have done some more things. I don't want to know what necessarily write a lay person thinks someone else's work I want the best Trucking tile Setter I go and I asked tile Setters who's the best, I want validation from people within that profession with knowledge base were able to distinguish, good work from bad you are able to vouch for the skill sets that are needed. If I'm looking to coordinate with somebody if I'm looking to use somebody else's skill sets it's damn near a given that I don't have those set skill sets myself, with fdc's you can see exactly what those skill sets are the Baseline skill sets are, and you can rest assured that other people in that industry in that pursuit in that Guild agree and the doors this person. With fdc's you know what it takes to be that person what it takes to accept that role and other people know what it took you to get there, its credibility, its Merit, its performance, and those are the things that we are sorely lacking when people are out in the great big wide free-market looking for people to network with and coordinate with. And this way both people who are aspiring to do something and people who are in need of something that skill-set or a task know what they're getting themselves into and know what to expect.

#### Examples

The skillset for a tile setter

Welder

Seamstress

[Form and Function](../../../../blue-paper/1.0-guild/0.0-fundamental-domain-competencies.md)
