---
description: >-
  -aspects of the platform & how each is build to facilitate a component of
  Ikigai
coverY: 0
---

# 1.9 Specific Benefits

#### Gamification --> to get better at what you’re good at

It’s easier to be successful when you know what success is. We love Games because the rules are clear and they apply to everyone. We understand from the outset what our objective is, how to achieve it, and we’re equipped with all the resources to do so. They give us a sense of accomplishment from leveling up, solving a puzzle, scoring a point. We are extending those addictive aspects of gaming to the real world; Gamifying the process of exploring your interests, learning a skill, deepening a passion, and building community.

#### Discoverability --> to find what you love

The most successful among us know that life is full of choices. By presenting people with the opportunities around them, we make those choices apparent. They are able to explore both the outside world and themselves to find which path best suits their talents; growing confidence with experience, and realizing their potential through resolve.

#### Networking --> avenues to support your livelihood

t’s not what you know, but who you know. An endeavor is only as successful as the people it enlists. Be it a partnership or a one-time collaboration, a new hire or a new employer -You want to have an idea of _Who_ you're going to be investing your time and energy into. There’s no shortage of opportunities, of innovators, or of work that needs to be done, and people that need to be recognized. **We provide recognition and accountability, expand networks, and help people get where they need.**

#### Rehumanizing --> What the world needs

It’s easier to feel compassion for someone when you’re in it together. Context has an overbearing power to shape our perceptions of those around us. Within our context, every connection made is on the basis of shared interests, which is where we find our common ground. In the process of working toward a common goal, we develop mutual respect and transform strangers into valued allies. It’s the shared experiences, struggles, and victories that form the basis of camaraderie and kinship. In this way, we recognize our shared humanity through our shared pursuits.&#x20;
