---
description: >-
  Quality control mechanism to maintain the health and veracity of content on
  the platform.
---

# 1.5 Content Moderation

#### Overview

Whenever a Member identifies a piece of content they find troubling or inappropriate, they present it as a Dilemma to some portion of the greater  EVR Community, who are empowered to remove content as they see fit.&#x20;

The direct outcomes of content moderation can result in removal of content and/or censure of Members. But the implications are greater, and the repercussions far further reaching than that.&#x20;

<mark style="color:red;">\[There is FAR too much here, this needs to be broken up into more digestible pages]</mark>

As we've identified it, Content Moderation can occur at any of 7 different stages: Instigation -> Discovery -> Assessment -> Formalization -> Docketing -> Arbitration -> Consequence.

Each stage represents a points of intervention that can be Proactive (-via the PotenzaIndex, Guild Standards, Self Selection, & BillingsScore), Responsive (-via the ArbitrationThreshold,  ArbitratorPool, and Personal Awareness), or Reactive (-via Arbitration & subsequent adjustments made to the metrics listed above)

Stages of Moderation:

1\) Instigation stage where: A piece of content is generated & posted. -Moderated by the Potenza Index, which impedes the ability of habitual shit-posters to post shit.

2\) Discovery stage where: Viewing the content elicits a negative reaction from a Member.-Moderated by Guild Standards & Self Selection.

3\) Assessment stage where: The Member must gauge the strength and nature of their reaction, and whether it merits action on the part of others. \[<mark style="color:red;">are we thinking that people can just block those they don't like, how do we manage the line between sticking around to regulate & inundating with drivel?</mark>] -Moderated by Personal Awareness,

4\) Formalization stage where: The Member must communicate the grounds on which the content is being challenged (either that it is Unethical, or Unfitting), and justify their assertion (in the form of a Brief). -Moderated by Billings Score, which limits the influence of petulance.&#x20;

5\) Docketing stage where: Given that the Arbitration Threshold is met; a redacted version of the content in question along with its Brief <mark style="color:red;">\[do we include here the option to see previous briefs is the content has been called into question more than once]</mark>, is sent for arbitration. -Moderated by the Arbitration Threshold, which prevents unwarranted amplification.&#x20;

6\) Arbitration stage: a determination is made about the disputed content. -Moderated by Arbitrator Pool, pushing decision making towards randomized yet relevant parties.&#x20;

7\) Consequences stage that result in either:

Removal of the content, and a lowering of the PotenzaIndex of the Member(s) who posted it

Non-removal of the content, and a lowering of the BillingsScore of the Member(s) who disputed the content.&#x20;

Absolution (re-posting) of previously removed content, and adjustments (proportional reversal) to the BillingsScore(s) & PotenzaIndex(s) of those affected. &#x20;

In any case the Arbitration Threshold of the disputed content is raised, and its docket saved administratively, not publicly (primarily to prevent members from being recalled to arbitrate over the same piece of content, but also for statistical & edification purposes.

#### Where it occurs/ how we initiate it

Whenever a Member identifies a piece of content they find troubling or inappropriate, they present it as a dilemma to some portion of the greater  EVR Community.

[Philosophy](../../white-paper/1.9-community-governance-structure/1.5-content-moderation.md)
